Term entry c sharp compare (#1943)
Codecademy/docs: content/c-sharp/concepts/strings/terms/compare/compare.md

---
Title: '.Compare()'
Description: 'Compares the alphabetical order of two strings and returns an integer that represents their relative ranking.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Code Foundations'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-sharp'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`.Compare()`** method is a string method that compares the alphabetical order of two specified [`strings`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c-sharp/strings) and returns an integer that represents their relative ranking.

## Syntax

```pseudo
String.Compare(string1, string2, ignoreCase);
```

- The `.Compare()` method is called on the `String` class. It takes two `string` type arguments, `string1` and `string2`,  and compares them alphabetically.

> - `ignoreCase` is an optional `boolean` type argument. By default the `.Compare()` method is case-sensitive. Passing `true` as the third argument makes the `.Compare()` method case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ignoreCase` is an optional `boolean` type argument. By default the `.Compare()` method is case-sensitive. Passing `true` as the third argument makes the `.Compare()` method case-insensitive.
```

---
Title: '.Compare()'

> Description: 'Compares two specified strings in alphabetical order and returns an integer that represents their relative order.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Compares the alphabetical order of two strings and returns an integer that represents their relative ranking.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Code Foundations'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-sharp'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.Compare()`** method is a string method that compares two specified [`strings`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c-sharp/strings) in alphabetical order and returns an integer that represents their relative order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`.Compare()`** method is a string method that compares the alphabetical order of two specified [`strings`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c-sharp/strings) and returns an integer that represents their relative ranking.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo

> String.Compare(string1, string2, `ignoreCase`);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
String.Compare(string1, string2, ignoreCase);
```

```

> The `.Compare()` method is called on the `String` class. It takes two `string` type arguments, `string1` and `string2`, to compare them alphabetically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `.Compare()` method is called on the `String` class. It takes two `string` type arguments, `string1` and `string2`,  and compares them alphabetically.
```

> > **Note:** `ignoreCase` is an optional `boolean` type argument. By default, `false` or not specified, the `.Compare()` method is case-sensitive. Passing `true` as the third argument makes the`.Compare()` method non-case-sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** `ignoreCase` is an optional `boolean` type argument. By default the `.Compare()` method is case-sensitive. Passing `true` as the third argument makes the `.Compare()` method case insensitive.
```

The `.Compare()` method returns an `integer` that represents the relative order of `string1` and `string2` in the alphabet:

- `0` if their position is the same (`string1` and `string2` are identical)

> - a negative `integer` if `string1` comes before `string2`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `-1` if `string1` comes before `string2`
```

> - a positive `integer` if `string2` comes before `string1`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `1` if `string2` comes before `string1`
```

## Example

In the following example, the `.Compare()` method compares `Pizza` with `pizza` and `waffle`. Then the `WriteLine()` method prints the returned integer to the console:

```cs
using System;

public class Example {
  public static void Main (string[] args) {
    string str1 = "Pizza", str2 = "pizza", str3 = "waffle";

    Console.WriteLine(String.Compare(str1, str2));
    Console.WriteLine(String.Compare(str1, str3));
  }
}
```

In the first case, `pizza` comes before `Pizza` in alphabetical order, as it is lowercase and the method is case-sensitive. In the second case, `Pizza` comes before `waffle` in alphabetical order. This example results in the following output:

```shell
1
-1
```

## Codebyte Example

> In the following runnable example, the `.Compare()` method determines the alphabetical order of the given `string1` and `string2`, while the letter casing is ignored. Finally, the `WriteLine()` method prints the returned integer to the console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following runnable example, the `.Compare()` method determines the alphabetical order of `string1` and `string2`, while the letter casing is ignored. Finally, the `WriteLine()` method prints the returned integer to the console.
```
